doc: suit: Push scenario and DFU caches documentation (#17519)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_suit_push.rst

.. _ug_nrf54h20_suit_push:

How to push SUIT payloads to multiple partitions
################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

In the Software Updates for Internet of Things (SUIT), it is possible to push certain payloads separately from the SUIT envelope.

> The envelope can than find them in the device and use them as part of the firmware upgrade process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The envelope can find them in the device and use them as part of the firmware upgrade process.
```

> In Nordic Semiconductor's implementation, this functionality is provide by a mechanism called the DFU cache partitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Nordic Semiconductor's implementation, this functionality is provided by a mechanism called the DFU cache partitions.
```

This guide explains how the DFU cache partitions work, and how to configure the build system and SUIT manifests to use them for pushing detached payloads.

Reasons to push images separately from the SUIT envelope
********************************************************

Pushing images separately from the SUIT envelope can be useful in the following scenarios:

* Pushing part of the image to an external memory chip.

* Pushing parts of the update package to non-adjacent memory areas, separated by other data.

* Reducing the amount of data that needs to be resent in case of communication failure to continue the update.

* Pushing parts of the image through different communication channels.

DFU Cache Partitions
********************

> The payloads pushed to the device must be placed in so called “DFU cache partitions”, numbered 0..n.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The payloads pushed to the device must be placed in DFU cache partitions, numbered 0..n.
```

Author: I wanted to introduce the term "DFU cache partitions" here, it is not a term which is obvious, this is why I would not like to drop the "so called" and quotes.

Reviewer: May be we can use italics to emphasize and rephrase a bit to make it clear?

"The payloads pushed to the device must be placed in _DFU cache partitions_,  which are numbered from 0 to n".

The DFU cache partitions hold data in the format of a CBOR map, in which the keys are URI strings and the values are binary images.

> When the Secure Domain processes the manifest and encounters a “fetch” directive it first checks if a given URI is present in its “integrated payloads” section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Secure Domain processes the manifest and encounters a fetch directive, it first checks if a given URI is present in its “integrated payloads” section.
```

Author: I've changed to ``suit-directive-fetch``, I think it will be more understandable

If it is not, it goes through all the DFU cache partitions defined in the device.
If the given URI is found as a map key, the binary data stored in the value field corresponding to that URI is fetched.

The DFU cache partition 0 is always present in the device.

> It takes all of the space from the dfu_partition which is not occupied by the envelope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It takes all of the space from the ``dfu_partition`` which is not occupied by the envelope.
```

> This partition has a limitation - it can only be used after storing the SUIT envelope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This partition has a limitation that it can only be used after storing the SUIT envelope.
```

> The DFU cache partitions 1…n are defined in the device tree, by using the dfu_cache_partition_x  node name, where x is the partition number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DFU cache partitions 1…n are defined in the device tree, by using the ``dfu_cache_partition_x`` node name, where x is the partition number.
```

The partitions can be placed both in the internal MRAM as well as in the external flash.

> Extracting images
> *********************************************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extracting images
*****************
```

The :ref:`nrf54h_suit_sample` sample uses the SMP protocol for uploading new envelopes and is by default configured to use the push model for firmware upgrades.
To reconfigure the sample to allow for pushing images into DFU cache partitions, complete the following steps:

1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CANDIDATE_PROCESSING_PUSH_TO_CACHE` Kconfig option.
   This enables the writing to the DFU cache partitions.
   Alternatively, you can enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CANDIDATE_PROCESSING_FULL` option to enable the SUIT envelope processing in the application firmware.
   This will enable a superset of options enabled by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CANDIDATE_PROCESSING_PUSH_TO_CACHE`, but will occupy more memory.

> #. If you intend to use any other cache partition then 0, add the DFU cache partition in the appropriate memory area in the device tree overlay:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. If you intend to use any other cache partition than 0, add the DFU cache partition in the appropriate memory area in the device tree overlay:
```

   .. code-block:: dts

		dfu_cache_partition_N: partition@a000 {
			reg = <0xa000 DT_SIZE_K(1024)>;
		};

>    Replace ``N`` is the partition number, ``a000`` with the proper offset inside the memory area, and ``1024`` with the proper size of the cache partition.

Reviewer: Replace ``N`` _with_ the partition number??

Reviewer: Seems it is not fixed.

Author: Fixed now

   For example, you could add the cache partition 1 with the size of 1024 kilobytes in the external flash at an offset of 0 by adding:

   .. code-block:: dts

      &mx25uw63 {
         status = "okay";
         partitions {
            compatible = "fixed-partitions";
            #address-cells = <1>;
            #size-cells = <1>;

            dfu_cache_partition_1: partition@0 {
               reg = <0x0 DT_SIZE_K(1024)>;
            };
         };
      };

#. For each of the images you want to push separately to the device:

>    * Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CACHE_EXTRACT_IMAGE` option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CACHE_EXTRACT_IMAGE` Kconfig option.
```

>    * (Optionally) modify :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CACHE_EXTRACT_IMAGE_PARTITION` to select to which partition the image will be pushed (default is 1).
>    * (Optionally) modify the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CACHE_EXTRACT_IMAGE_URI` to modify the URI used as key for the given image in the DFU cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Modify :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CACHE_EXTRACT_IMAGE_PARTITION` Kconfig option to select to which partition the image will be pushed (default is 1). (Optional)
   * Modify the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CACHE_EXTRACT_IMAGE_URI` Kconfig option to modify the URI used as key for the given image in the DFU cache. (Optional)
```

Author: Looking at other docs it seems the most common version is "Optionally," at the start of the sentence, so I modified it this way, is this OK?

> #. Ensure that the uri used by ``suit-payload-fetch`` sequence to fetch a given image matches the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CACHE_EXTRACT_IMAGE_URI`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Ensure that the URI used by the ``suit-payload-fetch`` sequence to fetch a given image matches the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CACHE_EXTRACT_IMAGE_URI` Kconfig option.
```

>    Note this is done by default if using the provided Nordic manifest templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is done by default if using the manifest templates provided by Nordic Semiconductor.
```

>    For the application image URI this can be done by (assuming the target name "application" for the image):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For the application image URI, this can be done by (assuming the target name ``application`` for the image):
```

   .. code-block:: yaml

      - suit-directive-override-parameters:
         suit-parameter-uri: '{{ application['config']['CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CACHE_EXTRACT_IMAGE_URI'] }}'
      - suit-directive-fetch:
        - suit-send-record-failure

> #. Ensure that the envelope does not integrate the given image inside the envelope integrated payloads section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Ensure that the envelope does not integrate the given image inside the envelope integrated payloads section.
```

>    This will be ensured by default if using the provided default SUIT envelope templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is ensured by default if using the provided default SUIT envelope templates.
```

Pushing the images to device
****************************

> For an example how to push an image to a device see the :ref:`SUIT SMP Sample documentation <nrf54h_suit_sample>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :ref:`SUIT SMP Sample documentation <nrf54h_suit_sample>` for an example of how to push an image to a device.
```

The DFU cache partition 0 is always present in the device.
It takes all of the space from the dfu_partition which is not occupied by the envelope.
This partition has a limitation - it can only be used after storing the SUIT envelope.

The DFU cache partitions 1…n are defined in the device tree, by using the dfu_cache_partition_x  node name, where x is the partition number.
The partitions can be placed both in the internal MRAM as well as in the external flash.

Extracting images
*********************************************************

The :ref:`nrf54h_suit_sample` sample uses the SMP protocol for uploading new envelopes and is by default configured to use the push model for firmware upgrades.
To reconfigure the sample to allow for pushing images into DFU cache partitions, complete the following steps:

1. Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CANDIDATE_PROCESSING_PUSH_TO_CACHE` Kconfig option.
   This enables the writing to the DFU cache partitions.
   Alternatively, you can enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CANDIDATE_PROCESSING_FULL` option to enable the SUIT envelope processing in the application firmware.

>    This will enable a superset of options enabled by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SUIT_DFU_CANDIDATE_PROCESSING_PUSH_TO_CACHE`, but will occupy more memory.

Author: Both :) (I've added this information). I do not want to be specific about the numbers as it might change during development
